## NA or NE?

> This section is a contradiction between the 2022 Red List guidance and the 2010 Regional guidance. Prior versions of the Red List, which the Regional guidance was written for, allowed for taxa to be given threat statuses on the basis of rarity. The 2022 revision of the Red List changed this, so that taxa were assessed primarily on trends, closing the loophole.
>
> The regional guidance attempted to patch the pre-2022 Red List process by placing 'rare because they should be' taxa, such as recent migrants, edge-of-range taxa etc, into a new category called 'NA'.

NE for taxa with significant widespread confusion in the application of nomenclature to the type. I.E. 'I don't know which type these records are of'


NA for taxa which are non-assessable colonists.
NA is also for taxa which are synanthropic colonists
> Partially changed, due to the problems of attempting to apply the 2010 Regional guidance to a document 12 years younger. 
>
> Synanthropy is dealt with by the **Guidance**, and we're flip-flopping over which document we are treating as primary. The decision has been made to perform all possible assessment under the **Guidance**, as it is far newer. The **Regional guidance** is only being consulted for 'special' cases, such as the application of 'NA' rather than the **guidance** 'NE' at the specific request of Natural England.  
> 
>  *H. rutilans* is a nomenclatural problem as well now, so stayed as NE with added 'peri-assessment change' in nomenclature

Miscophus bicolor as a peri-assessment colonist? Check this. If it is, then it should be NA (see above). If not, DD.
> Yes, changed to NE ahead of general change

Holopyga generosa as peri-assessment colonist? Check this. If it is, then it should be NA. If not, DD.
> Yes, changed to NE ahead of general change

Change all NE to NA where assessment is based on colonisation
> Done, for *non-synanthropic colonisation*

Add this to the rulings
> Done


Narratives:
Flowing English
Minimal as possible

Work out cost estimate for completion of narratives for all taxa (~600 species)
Cannot use standardised LC template as the criteria which are DD vs LC will change based on each one

Remove threatened/DD taxa which would not change from additional data
Continue with Extended Data portion of contract with the taxa which are potentials to change


Talk on Friday. Talk with Ben and Mike to find time