# Meeting notes

- Mike Howe has a version of the previous assessment. If included, this would go into the internal review as a moderation step.

- Process spec:
    - Look at the NRW version. Does any information change your opinion of the status of this taxon?

- Steering group should compose of larger-scale experts
    - Mike Howe would like greater consultation of agency staff (NRW, NatureScot etc)

- Mike Howe asks for a specific draft version to be circulated prior to official release, available for comment

    - No portal exists for capturing comments in a meaningful manner

- *EVERY* red list criteria **must** be attempted.

- Dismissing a criterion is not permitted

- *All* possible data should be sourced

- Mark Brown states that it is permissible to *estimate* the number of mature individuals in a population based on 'best available knowledge' instead of relying on the Red List definition of requiring survey effort. This is for use in:

    - Criterion C 'Number of mature individuals'
    - Criterion D 'Number of mature individuals'

- Criterion B does not *require* criterion (a) to be satisfied, but this is effectively mandatory as there does not exist the information to satisfy criterion (c). The result is that, in order to reach criterion B's conclusion, (a) and (b) must be met.

- cEoO via MCP *must* be used, regardless of any problems applying the metric to the taxon. The model may be rejected on an individual taxon basis, with justification

- Replace 'DD' for bayesian occupancy with a different term. It confused Mark Brown.

- Mark Brown stated that species where it is 'obvious' that the result will be Least Concern may skip the process documentation to save time

- Mark Brown stated that, for the rarer or more threatened species, more effort should be spent attempting to source data or information. The response from Rowan was that if this is to be done then it needs to be a secondary processing in order to maintain parity on establishing what is rare or threatened to begin with.