## Argogorytes mystaceus: iso. Richards: 1980
The most threatening accepted population change was inferred at 1% from the Area of Occupancy change. This does not exceed the 30% decline required for qualification as VU under Criterion A. The EoO (303,650 km2) exceeds the 20,000 km2 VU threshold for criterion B1, and the AoO (2,440 km2) exceeds the 2,000 km2 VU threshold for criterion B2. For criterion D2, the number of locations exceeds the VU threshold of five and there is no plausible threat that could drive the taxon to CR or RE in a very short time.

## Lasioglossum parvulum: iso. Amiet et al: 2001
The most threatening accepted population change was inferred at -14% from the absolute count of occurrence records. This does not exceed the 30% decline required for qualification as VU under Criterion A. The EoO (173,000 km2)  exceeds the 20,000 km2 VU threshold for criterion B1, and the AoO (3,108 km2) exceeds the 2,000 km2 VU threshold for criterion B2. For criterion D2, the number of locations exceeds the VU threshold of five and there is no plausible threat that could drive the taxon to CR or RE in a very short time.

## Lonchodryinus ruficornis: iso. Olmi: 1994
There were no models relating to criterion A which provided an acceptable result for this taxon. The EoO (132,450 km2) exceeds the 20,000 km2 VU threshold for criterion B1, and the AoO (96 km2) is below the 500 km2 EN threshold for criterion B2 but does not satisfy sufficient subcriteria for classification as EN. For criterion D2, the number of locations exceeds the VU threshold of five and there is no plausible threat that could drive the taxon to CR or RE in a very short time.